{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22\par
Shop DIY Books DIY Tip Genius App Free Product Info Promotions Login  Join us\par
 The Family Handyman\par
 \par
find DIY projects, repairs, tips\par
 \par
SUBSCRIBE NOW \'bb\par
Give a Gift \'bb\par
Digital Edition \'bb\par
Customer Care \'bb\par
ROOMS\par
SKILLS\par
PARTS OF THE HOUSE\par
OUTDOORS\par
BLOG\par
SUBSCRIBE\par
DIY UNIVERSITY\par
NEWSLETTERS\par
Home Skills Appliance Repair How to Repair a Refrigerator\par
How to Repair a Refrigerator\par
Fix the most common fridge problems yourself\emdash and save the expense of a service call!\par
 Print  Share:      \par
Project\par
Step-by-Step\par
Tools & Materials\par
Next Project\par
 \par
Simple fixes for the four most common refrigerator problems: an ice-maker breakdown, water leaking onto the floor, a cooling failure and too much noise. Chances are, you can solve the problem yourself, save some money and avoid the expense and inconvenience of a service appointment. The following article will walk you through the simplest solutions to the most common fridge malfunctions.\par
\par
By the DIY experts of The Family Handyman Magazine\par
TIME\par
\par
  One day\par
COMPLEXITY\par
\par
  Simple\par
COST\par
\par
 Under $20\par
Similar Projects\par
\par
How to Avoid Refrigerator Repairs\par
How to Avoid Refrigerator Repairs\par
How to Replace a Refrigerator Door Gasket\par
How to Replace a Refrigerator Door Gasket\par
Straighten Sagging Refrigerator Doors\par
Straighten Sagging Refrigerator Doors\par
How to Fix a Leaky Refrigerator Water Dispenser\par
How to Fix a Leaky Refrigerator Water Dispenser\par
Fix Refrigerator Problems\par
Fix Refrigerator Problems\par
Ice Maker Repair Tips\par
Ice Maker Repair Tips\par
Refrigerator Maintenance: Refrigerator Compressor Repair\par
Refrigerator Maintenance: Refrigerator Compressor Repair\par
How to Make a Garage Refrigerator Work\par
How to Make a Garage Refrigerator Work\par
Refrigerator Repair: Fix a Broken Water Dispenser Switch\par
Refrigerator Repair: Fix a Broken Water Dispenser Switch\par
Clean a Stinky Fridge\par
Clean a Stinky Fridge\par
How to Reverse a Refrigerator Door\par
How to Reverse a Refrigerator Door\par
How to Paint Plastic Appliance Handles\par
How to Paint Plastic Appliance Handles\par
How to Fix a Leaking Refrigerator\par
How to Fix a Leaking Refrigerator\par
What to Look for in a New Fridge: Refrigerator Buying Guide\par
What to Look for in a New Fridge: Refrigerator Buying Guide\par
\'8b\par
\'9b\par
Step-by-Step\par
Problem: Icemaker on strike\par
\par
 \par
Problem: Tiny ice cubes\par
\par
When an icemaker stops working or produces only tiny cubes, it's usually because the water supply is partially or completely blocked. To find and fix the blockage, check out the three common trouble spots.\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Easy fixes for an icemaker\par
\par
 \par
Photo 1: Remove the icemaker\par
\par
Remove the screws that hold the icemaker in place. Unplug the wiring harness and remove the icemaker to expose the water inlet tube.\par
\par
FIRST, check the water inlet tube for ice (Photos 1 and 2). The tube that supplies water to your icemaker can get plugged with ice when the water pressure is low. The trickling water freezes and plugs the tube before it reaches the icemaker.\par
\par
SECOND, unblock the saddle valve (Photos 3 and 4). Most icemakers are connected to the household water supply by a \ldblquote saddle\rdblquote  valve. One problem with saddle valves is that the needle hole in the pipe can clog. Fortunately, that blockage is easy to clear once you locate the saddle valve (Photo 3). If you have an unfinished basement, you'll probably find a tube beneath the fridge that leads to the valve. Otherwise, look under your kitchen sink.\par
\par
THIRD, replace the water inlet valve (Photo 5). At the back of your fridge, there's a small electric \ldblquote inlet valve\rdblquote  that turns the water supply to the icemaker on and off. Before you replace the valve, make sure water is flowing to it: Turn off the water at the saddle valve (Photo 3) and disconnect the supply tube from the inlet valve (see Photo 5). Hold the tube over a bucket and have a helper turn on the saddle valve. If water flows out of the tube, the water supply is fine and chances are the inlet valve is bad. See \ldblquote Finding Fridge Parts\rdblquote  for help finding a new valve. When the job is done, turn the water back on and check for leaks before you push the fridge back into place.\par
\par
Caution:\par
\par
Always unplug the refrigerator before you make any repairs.\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Problem: The fridge produces puddles\par
\par
 \par
A leaky refrigerator\par
\par
The water supply lines that serve icemakers or water dispensers can leak and make pools under the fridge. But a fridge without these features can create water problems too. Every fridge produces water in the form of condensation and melting ice. When the system that deals with this water fails, you can end up with puddles inside and outside of the fridge.\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Easy solutions for fridge leaks\par
\par
 \par
Photo 6: Close-up of leak-prone parts of a compression fitting\par
\par
FIRST, check the water supply line (Photo 6). If your fridge has an icemaker or water dispenser, pull out the fridge and look for a leak. If there's a leak at the inlet valve (Photo 5), tighten the compression nuts. If the plastic or copper tube is leaking, replace it. Tubing is usually connected to the saddle valve (Photo 3) and inlet valve (Photo 5) with screw on compression fittings.\par
\par
SECOND, level the fridge (Photos 7 and 8). Water drains into a pan under the fridge where it evaporates. If your fridge is badly tilted, water can spill out of the pan. Leveling the fridge solves this problem (Photo 7).\par
\par
THIRD, clear the drain tube (Photos 9 and 10). If the drain tube in the freezer gets plugged, water leaks into the compartment below or onto the floor. To unplug it, first remove the cover panel (Photo 9). In some models, you have to unscrew the floor panel too. Use a hair dryer to melt any ice buildup. Sop away the melt water with a sponge. Then clean up around the drain hole. Blow air through the tube to clear it. Any tube that fits tightly into the hole will work. You can also use a tire pump or air compressor (turn the pressure down to 30 psi).\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Problem: Fridge or freezer won't cool\par
\par
 \par
Freezer failure!\par
\par
There are lots of malfunctions that can take the chill out of your fridge. One common cause of suddenly soft ice cream or warm juice is a simple loss of electricity. If the light doesn't come on when you open the fridge door, make sure the fridge is plugged in and check the breaker panel. If the fridge runs but doesn't get cold enough, chances are one of the following fixes will restore the chill.\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Easy solutions for cooling problems\par
\par
 \par
Photo 11: Check the temperature control dial\par
\par
Adjust the temperature control dial. Also make sure the vents inside the fridge or freezer compartment aren\rquote t blocked by containers.\par
\par
FIRST, check the thermostat and vents (Photo 11). The temperature control dial inside the fridge is sometimes irresistible to curious kids. Make sure it hasn\rquote t been turned way down. Also make sure the vents in the fridge and freezer compartment aren't blocked by food containers\emdash these vents supply the flow of frigid air.\par
\par
SECOND, clean the coils (Photo 12). In order for your fridge to create a chill, air has to flow freely through the condenser coils. On most older refrigerators, these coils are on the backside. Cereal boxes on top of the fridge or grocery bags stuffed behind it can reduce the needed airflow. Most newer refrigerators have coils underneath, where they can get blocked by trash and plugged with dust. Even if your fridge is working fine, you should pull off the front grille and clean the coils every year for efficient operation; do it every six months if you have shedding pets. Long brushes are available at appliance stores for $8.\par
\par
THIRD, free up the condenser fan (Photo 13). Coils on the back of a fridge create their own airflow as they heat up. Models with coils underneath have a fan to push air through them. Dust buildup can slow the fan; wads of paper or other trash can stop it altogether.\par
\par
Diagnose and Replace a Bum Refrigerator Circuit Board\par
\par
If your refrigerator isn\rquote t keeping food cold, the cause could be a burned circuit board or a sticking circuit board relay. Before calling for repair service, try this trick. Unplug the fridge and roll it out. Remove any metal cover plates or cardboard access panels on the back and look for a circuit board. Examine the board for burn marks. If you see any, replace it as shown in Photo 2. Move the press-on connectors to the new board one at a time. Press each connector onto the header pins until it\rquote s firmly seated.\par
\par
If the board looks good, locate the largest relay on the board (look for the largest rectangular plastic box). Then plug in the fridge (don\rquote t touch any wires!). Tap lightly on the compressor relay to rattle the electrical contacts inside. If the fridge starts, you need a new circuit board.\par
\par
If there are no burn marks and the tapping doesn\rquote t work, or the compressor makes a humming or clicking sound and then shuts off, the problem may be a relay located on the compressor itself. To learn how to do that fix, see refrigerator compressor repair.\par
\par
 Rattle the relay on the circuit board. Photo 1: Rattle the relay.\par
 Swap out the circuit board Photo 2: Swap out the circuit board.\par
Back to Top 1\par
Problem: A noisy fridge\par
\par
 \par
Constant refrigerator noises can drive you nuts\par
\par
Refrigerator noise comes from either the compressor under the fridge, the condenser fan motor under the fridge, or the evaporator fan motor inside the freezer. Open the freezer door while the fridge is running. If the noise doesn't get louder when you open the freezer, pull out the fridge. Most refrigerators have a condenser fan motor (Photo 13). Unscrew the back cover and listen\emdash you'll be able to tell whether the noise is coming from the fan or the compressor. The best cure for a loud compressor is usually a new fridge. To replace the fan motor, remove its mounting screws, unplug it and install the new one.\par
\par
Back to Top 1\par
Easy solutions to refrigerator noises\par
\par
 \par
Photo 14: Remove the fan\par
\par
Unscrew the fan from the rear wall of the freezer and unplug the wires. With some models, you'll need a socket set or nut driver to remove the fan.\par
\par
If the sound gets louder when you open the freezer, the evaporator fan motor is the noisy culprit. This motor is easy to replace. Your fan may not look exactly like the fan we show here, but the basic steps are the same (Photos 14 and 15). Start by unscrewing the back cover panel in the freezer compartment (Photo 9). To install the new fan, just reverse your steps.\par
\par
Don't Wreck The Floor When You Pull Out The Fridge\par
\par
Nine times out of ten, you can pull out a fridge without any damage to the floor. But a sideways skid or a grain of sand caught under a wheel can scar any floor\emdash I even managed to scratch the ceramic tile in my kitchen. At the very least, lay down a cardboard runway before dragging out your fridge. For the ultimate floor protection, use 1/8-in. hardboard (at home centers). A pair of shims create a ramp for easier pulling.\par
\par
 Pulling fridge Lay hardboard to protect floor\par
 Wheel close-up Shim ramps wheel up onto hardboard\par
Finding Fridge Parts\par
\par
To get the right part for your refrigerator, you'll need the model number, which is usually stamped on a tag inside the fridge. If you can't find it anywhere on or inside the fridge, check your owner's manual.\par
To locate a parts dealer in your area, look under \ldblquote Appliances, Major, Parts\rdblquote  in the Yellow Pages or online.\par
To mail-order parts for any major brand, go to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "www.sears.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 www.sears.com}}}\f0\fs22  or call (800) 4-MY-HOME.\par
Back to Top 1\par
Tools & Materials\par
Required Tools for this Project\par
\par
Have the necessary tools for this DIY project lined up before you start\emdash you\rquote ll save time and frustration.\par
\par
4-in-1 screwdriver\par
Adjustable wrench\par
Level\par
Nut driver\par
Vacuum, long brush, hair dryer\par
\par
Popular How-To Videos\par
\par
Play\par
0:00\par
/\par
5:09\par
Fullscreen\par
Mute\par
Share\par
\par
Similar Videos\par
\par
How to Grow Grass | The Family Handyman\par
How to Kill Weeds | The Family Handyman\par
Container Gardening Tips | The Family Handyman\par
How to Store Wine Glasses | The Family Handyman\par
How to Make a DIY Spice Rack | The Family Handyman\par
How to Cut a Hole in Drywall | The Family Handyman\par
Sanding Wood Part 3: The Pencil Trick | The Family Handyman\par
How to Sharpen a Router Bit | The Family Handyman\par
How to Use a Tape Measure | The Family Handyman\par
How to Get Rid of Mice | The Family Handyman\par
How to Recharge Your AC | The Family Handyman\par
Home Security Tips | The Family Handyman\par
How to Sharpen a Lawn Mower Blade | The Family Handyman\par
How to Organize Your Pantry | The Family Handyman\par
How to Replace a Car Battery | The Family Handyman\par
How to Mix Concrete | The Family Handyman\par
How to Mark a Board | The Family Handyman\par
Replacing a 3-Way Switch | The Family Handyman\par
How to Fix a Running Toilet | The Family Handyman\par
Custom Garage Storage | The Family Handyman\par
\'8b\par
\'9b\par
  by Taboola Sponsored Links You May Like\par
Things You Need to Know Today to Plan Your Kid\rquote s Tomorrow\par
Axis Mutual Fund\par
India Visa For This Man Seen As Payback For China Protecting Masood Azhar\par
ndtv.com\par
Kid addicted to TV? Here is the Perfect Answer!\par
Magic Crate\par
Create Your App Without Coding on Appy Pie\par
Appy Pie\par
We Believe in Complete 'Care' For You & Your Family\par
Religare Health Insurance\par
Calculate: The Amount of Money You Need At 60\par
Big decisions\par
\par
Advertise with usADVERTISEMENT\par
We Recommend\par
\par
\par
20 Secret Hiding Places\par
\par
Save Money With Home Energy Audit\par
\par
Install Cabinets Like a Pro!\par
\par
How to Unclog a Drain\par
 The Family Handyman\par
Reader's Digest  Taste of Home Recipes\par
\'a9 2016 HOME SERVICE PUBLICATIONS, INC.\par
\par
ABOUT US\par
ROOMS\par
SKILLS\par
PARTS OF THE HOUSE\par
OUTDOORS\par
MAGAZINE\par
Subscribe\par
Give a Gift\par
Advertise With Us\par
Customer Care\par
Content Submission\par
Contact Us\par
Privacy Policy\par
View Our Recent Policy Updates\par
Terms of Use\par
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERS!\par
\par
\par
email address\par
 SIGN UP\par
FOLLOW US\par
\par
   \par
\par
    \par
}
 